[Music]
Peaceful Yoga
Nadi Shuddhi
Sadhguru says that Nadi Shuddhi
means cleansing the nadis.  When we say nadis,
we are not just talking about those 72 nadis.  Because those
72,000
Pingalas
are separated from the two basic nadis.
36,000 from Bingala, 36,000 from Ida.
This is the energy system of man.   When
we say that the nadi is purified,
we are talking about purifying the pingas and idas and making our energy system function in a balanced manner.  There
is a connection between your breath and your thoughts.  Only
if your thoughts are balanced will your
actions and feelings
be balanced.  Your life will be good only if these three are in balance
.  At the same time,
you
can contribute positively to the lives of others.  Therefore, the
Nadi Shuddhi plays an important role in providing this balance, which is so essential to your well-being
.
Let's first look at some tips to help you absorb these exercises properly.   If
you have just eaten and your stomach is
full, it is
best not to participate in this class.  You
can sit up straight as long as your back can without much difficulty.  You can sit with your hands
open and your palms untied
.  Sitting like this will
increase your absorption capacity and allow
you to fully reap the benefits of these exercises
.
These exercises are very simple and
safe.  Anyone can do this
.
Anyone over the age of seven can
do these exercises.   If
you're wearing glasses when
you do yoga, you can take them off,
put them aside, and then do yoga.
Now they will show you how to make a nadi hammer
.  Let's take note.
Sit with your legs crossed and your
spine comfortably straight.
Keep your eyes closed.  The left hand should be relaxed and on the lap
.  The palm
should be facing up.
You should use only your right hand.
You should use your ring finger and your ring finger.  You should keep your middle finger and
index finger folded
.  The ring finger and little
finger should be straight.  They should
be touching each other on the sides.  Now
close your right nostril with your finger and
inhale through your left nostril.
Then, exhale through the same nostril
.
After exhaling completely,
close your left nostril with your ring finger and
inhale through your right nostril.   You should
exhale through the same nostril.
Close the right nostril again,
open the left nostril, and inhale.  You should
exhale through the same nostril.
Close your left nostril with your ring finger,
open your right nostril, and
inhale.  Then exhale through the same nostril
.  We should
continue to do the same.   You need to pay
attention to your breathing.  When
performing this nadi shudhi, it is very important to take a
full breath in and a
full breath out.
Both the inhale and exhale should be complete.   You have
to do it as slowly and gently as you can.  There should
be no noise when you inhale or exhale.  If
you remember just one tip for doing this,
this Nadi Shuddhi will
work.  After each exhale,
you should switch nostrils,
so you should
exhale through the same nostril you inhaled through
.  The minimum is to hammer the hammer for four minutes
.  There are
a few adjustments that need
to be taken into account when performing Nadi Shuthi.  The left hand
should not be touched.   The
left hand should be placed loosely on the lap.
Only the ring finger and the index finger of the right hand should be used.
The ring finger and little finger
should be straight.  It should be touching the sides
.  The middle finger and index
finger should be folded.  If you
can't keep these two fingers straight, you should
keep them as straight as you can for as long as you can.
You should not sit cross-legged while practicing.  The spine
should be comfortably straight.  Some of you are sitting with your heads down
.  Otherwise,
you'll be turned to one side.
Your head may be turned to one side without your attention
.  The head
should be straight.  If you do this, your body
will return to balance very quickly.   Don't
put too much pressure on the lower part of your nose.   If you
place your index finger just a millimeter below your nose, you can
apply slight pressure to close your nostrils so that no air can escape
.
If your breathing is shallow, you shouldn't
do it as you normally would.
Take a full breath.
Exhale completely.
Let's work together now
.
Now let's sit down and take a seat.  For those who cannot sit on the floor, you can
sit cross-legged with your ankles crossed.
Sit with your legs crossed and your
spine comfortably straight.   The
left hand should be relaxed and on the lap.
The palm should be facing up.
You should use only your right hand.
You should use your thumb and ring finger.   The
middle finger and index finger
should be folded.  The ring finger and
little finger should be straight.  They should be
touching each other on the sides.
Keep your eyes closed.
Now close your right nostril with your finger and
inhale through your left nostril.
After taking a full inhale,
exhale through the same nostril.  Now,
close your left nostril with your ring finger and
inhale air through your right nostril.
Then exhale through the same nostril.
Again, close the right nostril and
open the left nostril.  Pulling in and
letting out.   We will
continue to do this until we tell you to stop
.
The focus should be completely on breathing.
Breathe in completely and
exhale completely.
You have to do it very slowly and gently.   Your
spine
should be comfortably straight.
Your head should be straight.
You should constantly pay attention to your breathing.   You can
take it and exhale through your nose and
stop.   Let
's open our eyes slowly
Peace Isnaad Almed Coal Plant
What does Sadhguru say? Peace and tranquility are
not the ultimate goal of life, they are the
basic need of life.
If you think that is the ultimate goal of life, then
only in death will you find deep peace.